MEDIN METADATA RDBMS XML GENERATION TOOL
========================================

This package provides a tool to extract MEDIN XML metadata from a
Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) and optionally validate
it.

This README is aimed at users who want to install the tool on a system
on which Python has already been installed. The tool has also been
packaged in a stand-alone binary for Windows users. See the
README-Windows.txt file for details.

PREREQUISITES
-------------

The tool requires Python version 2.7. There are also some library
dependencies that the tool relies on:

- libxml2 (http://xmlsoft.org/python.html) for xml interaction

- libxslt (http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/python.html) for schematron
  validation

- suds (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/suds) for web service interaction

- sqlalchemy (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/SQLAlchemy) for object
  relational mapping

- cx_Oracle (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/cx_Oracle) for connecting to
  oracle databases. Other drivers would be needed for other database
  systems. A list of supported drivers and databases can be found at
  http://www.sqlalchemy.org/docs/core/engines.html#supported-dbapis

- python-skos v0.0.3 (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-skos/0.0.3)
  for dealing with the vocabularies.

- ProxyTypes (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/ProxyTypes) for internal
  object proxying.

DOWNLOAD
--------

The tool can be downloaded from
http://www.geodata.soton.ac.uk/MEDIN_rdbms/metadata-tool.tar.gz

INSTALLATION
------------

Untar the package download file and change into the directory. The
following command installs the tool on your system:

python setup.py install

TESTING AND BASIC USAGE
-----------------------

Assuming you have libxml2 and libxslt installed and you have changed
to the untarred package directory, you should be able to test the tool
without installing it e.g.

./medin-metadata --help

Use of the tool should be reasonably straight forward if you're
familiar with the command line and the --help option!

It comes bundled with a copy of the EDMED database as a sqlite file
which has been used as a reference implementation for the medin schema
defined at
http://www.oceannet.org/marine_data_standards/medin_approved_standards/documents/medin_usermanaged_tables_user.doc

You can access this sample database using the `medin-rdbms` source as
follows:

./medin-metadata output medin-rdbms example

Assuming you have a database implementing the MEDIN metadata schema
and are using an Oracle database called 'EDMED' on the machine
'myhost' with the username 'me' and the password 'secret' you should
be able to connect to it as follows:

./medin-metadata output medin-rdbms oracle://me:secret@myhost/EDMED

CONTACT
-------

Specific queries on regarding the tool can be directed to Homme
Zwaagstra (hrz@geodata.soton.ac.uk). More general queries can be
directed to <geodata@soton.ac.uk>.
